## Project proposal
*Wietske Dotinga*

*10781889*

*26 September 2016*

**Research question(s):**
* In what frequency are historical topics talked about in historical journals?
* How is the distribution of authors publishing in historical journals?

**Method:** I will be using R for my project, because it is easier to use cross platform than UNIX. Using UNIX on Linux, MacOs and Windows is not completely the same, because of the usage of for example Cygwin on Windows. This means working in a group with different devices can cause problems. R is run in RStudio, which means those problems are not encountered while programming in R. R offers the statistical tools needed for this project.

For both research questions there is no easy possibility to research all journals published. This would be a too big project for this course. This is why the first step is making a selection of historical journals written in English.

For analysing this selection it is possible to use an API of a publisher, for example Elsevier, to research their different journals. Another possibility is to use an online database of journals, for example JSTOR.

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology offers a good overview of API's, and other online tools, that can be used to research scholarly publications. This overview can be found here: http://libguides.mit.edu/apis

JSTOR offers a tool called "Data for research". This tool can be used to collect data about their database. JSTOR is an important online database for historical journals, which makes it an interesting tool to use for this research. It offers CSV files containing datasets which can be used to answer one of the research questions. Those datasets can be analysed using R.

**Investigation of results:** To investigate the results it's important to look at the selection of the data. This needs to be discussed first. The results will be generated by analysing the CSV files provided.

The results of the analysis will form a new dataset. Reading this dataset provides the answer to the research question. Visualising the results is a helpful way to communicate the answer to the research question to the reader. This visualisation can be done using R.
